Writing is nature's way of letting you know how sloppy your thinking is.
Still, those rooms had mattresses. The hikers unpacked their gear and called their parents, discussing their planned reunion in Harpers Ferry to celebrate making it halfway. Better bring soap and brushes, Geoff told his mother, so that we can scrub the smell out of our packs. Glenda Hood promised to bring two pumpkin pies, his favorite. 
“To die doing something you love is not the worst thing in this life. There are no guarantees.”
The best plan is the one you will actually follow.
Most people find inspiration by coming across new people, passing conversations, sights, and sounds other than those they've seen every day of their life. And anyone can make a coffee shop, library, coworking space, or any other island of Wi-Fi more usable and productive by planning ahead and making the right adjustments.
You’d think I’d work better – so much energy, so much infinite overclocked brainpower. But instead I keep tripping over myself because I can’t focus for more than two seconds at a time.
Conversely, when I’m slightly tired, I just plomp my arse down and code. With a slightly tired brain I can code for hours and hours without even thinking about checking twitter or facebook. It’s like the internet stops existing.
The simple fact is that in economic terms, these startups are often barely worth much, if anything at all. Because they don’t enhance human potential, they don’t create much real value for people, let alone society, future generations, their communities, etcetera — maybe they save a trip here and there, but that’s about it. Yes — that can enhance efficiency. But what it doesn’t do is enhance human well being in any meaningful or significant way. And so they surely don’t elevate or expand the human experience, in even the small way that, say, an Apple Store does. They’re as evanescent — pretty, maybe, but vacant — as the soap bubbles they’re so reminiscent of.
First, because a generation of young people are furiously chasing desperate dreams of winning this half-baked thinly-veiled ponzi scheme. But what they are not doing is creating stuff that actually matters, endures, counts, resonates. That changes the world, transforms lives, means anything. They are wasting their lives on the trivial, the futile, the meaningless. On diminishing people’s potential, by limiting them to be neo-servants — not expanding it, by enhancing their capability to be their truest, best selves.
The greatest skill there is: becoming who we were truly meant to be.
The #1 way to avoid burnout is to do work you love.
Non-computer hobbies, time with people (including romance, et al), and exercise.
Some random suggestions: - Learn to play Ukulele - Cook for yourself more - Join a co-ed team sport you enjoy (this actually covers all 3) - Talk to your coworkers about doing remote work (even just once per week) * Your commute is seriously long, and that's a lot of wasted time. - Be honest, even if it scares the hell out of you. Especially when it scares the hell out of you. - Network as much as you can -- it might help to know there are other places to work that wont stress you out so much.
I know people that come with pre-coded modules for hackathons (especially in mobile dev), they copy-paste the codes and projects and just change a bit of the UI. They win every-time. Unfair? Yes. But they hacked the hackthon system and they win, so good for them.
Computers are capable of brining together a bunch of different stimulations and present them to the viewer to make a masterpiece.
New discoveries require new tools.
“You have to love before you can be relentless.” That, whatever it means, is the last of Franzen’s rules for writing fiction.
“trying to be perfectly likable is incompatible with loving relationships.”
“The reader is a friend, not an adversary, not a spectator.” That’s his first rule for writing fiction.
He wanted to accommodate the pleasure-principle desires, and perhaps the sociological narcissism, of his readers, but he also wanted to make it clear to those readers who now loved him that he wouldn’t always be likable. Loving him meant accepting that he was kind of a prick.
“My small hope for literary criticism would be to hear less about orchestras and subversion and more about the erotic and culinary arts. Think of the novel as a lover: Let’s stay home tonight and have a great time; just because you’re touched where you want to be touched, it doesn’t mean you’re cheap.”
It’s all of a piece with his nemesis John Barth’s notion that writers are constantly “re-­enacting a cyclical correction in the history (and the microhistories) of literature and of art in general.” The value of Franzen’s books is that they’re a theater to watch him swinging, a self-hating acrobat, from Pynchon and Gaddis back to Dickens and Austen. He’s a microhistory unto himself. 
Nothing is good or bad but thinking makes it so.
Reread, rewrite, reread, rewrite. If it still doesn't work, throw it away. It's a nice feeling, and you don't want to be cluttered with the corpses of poems and stories which have everything in them except the life they need.
A problem with a piece of writing often clarifies itself if you go for a long walk.
"What will survive of us is love".
Have regrets. They are fuel. On the page they flare into desire.
In my 30s I used to go to the gym even though I hated it. The purpose of ­going to the gym was to postpone the day when I would stop going. That's what writing is to me: a way of ­postponing the day when I won't do it any more, the day when I will sink into a depression so profound it will be indistinguishable from perfect bliss.
Description is hard. Remember that all description is an opinion about the world. Find a place to stand.
Imagine that you are dying. If you had a terminal disease would you ­finish this book? Why not? The thing that annoys this 10-weeks-to-live self is the thing that is wrong with the book. So change it. Stop arguing with yourself. Change it. See? Easy. And no one had to die.
Remember, if you sit at your desk for 15 or 20 years, every day, not ­counting weekends, it changes you. It just does. It may not improve your temper, but it fixes something else. It makes you more free.
Try to think of others' good luck as encouragement to yourself.
Fiction that isn't an author's personal adventure into the frightening or the unknown isn't worth writing for anything but money.
When information becomes free and universally accessible, voluminous research for a novel is devalued along with it.
You see more sitting still than chasing after.
Don't wait for inspiration. Discipline is the key.
Finish what you're writing. Whatever you have to do to finish it, finish it.
Remember: when people tell you something's wrong or doesn't work for them, they are almost always right. When they tell you exactly what they think is wrong and how to fix it, they are almost always wrong.
Style is the art of getting yourself out of the way, not putting yourself in it.
Never complain of being misunderstood. You can choose to be understood, or you can choose not to.
Write what you need to write, not what is currently popular or what you think will sell.
Open your mind to new experiences, particularly to the study of other ­people. Nothing that happens to a writer – however happy, however tragic – is ever wasted.
Have humility. Older/more ­experienced/more convincing writers may offer rules and varieties of advice. ­Consider what they say. However, don't automatically give them charge of your brain, or anything else – they might be bitter, twisted, burned-out, manipulative, or just not very like you.
Have more humility. Remember you don't know the limits of your own abilities. Successful or not, if you keep pushing beyond yourself, you will enrich your own life – and maybe even please a few strangers.
Defend yourself. Find out what keeps you happy, motivated and creative.
Read. As much as you can. As deeply and widely and nourishingly and ­irritatingly as you can. And the good things will make you remember them, so you won't need to take notes.
Be without fear. This is impossible, but let the small fears drive your rewriting and set aside the large ones ­until they behave – then use them, maybe even write them. Too much fear and all you'll get is silence.
If you get stuck, get away from your desk. Take a walk, take a bath, go to sleep, make a pie, draw, listen to ­music, meditate, exercise; whatever you do, don't just stick there scowling at the problem. But don't make telephone calls or go to a party; if you do, other people's words will pour in where your lost words should be. Open a gap for them, create a space. Be patient.
Read. Read everything you can lay hands on. I always advise people who want to write a fantasy or science fiction or romance to stop reading everything in those genres and start reading everything else from Bunyan to Byatt.
Find an author you admire (mine was Conrad) and copy their plots and characters in order to tell your own story, just as people learn to draw and paint by copying the masters.
The prerequisite for me is to keep my well of ideas full. This means living as full and varied a life as possible, to have my antennae out all the time.
Ted Hughes gave me this advice and it works wonders: record moments, fleeting impressions, overheard dialogue, your own sadnesses and bewilderments and joys.
Decide when in the day (or night) it best suits you to write, and organise your life accordingly.
Write for tomorrow, not for today. Write for the world, not the instructor.
Be your own editor/critic. Sympathetic but merciless!
Keep in mind Oscar Wilde: "A little sincerity is a dangerous thing, and a great deal of it is absolutely fatal."
The writing life is essentially one of solitary confinement – if you can't deal with this you needn't apply.
Protect the time and space in which you write. Keep everybody away from it, even the people who are most important to you.
Tell the truth through whichever veil comes to hand – but tell it. Resign yourself to the lifelong sadness that comes from never ­being satisfied.
Finish everything you start.
On Saturdays, you can watch an old Bergman film, preferably Persona or Autumn Sonata.
When an idea comes, spend silent time with it. Remember Keats's idea of Negative Capability and Kipling's advice to "drift, wait and obey". Along with your gathering of hard data, allow yourself also to dream your idea into being.
Writing fiction is not "self-­expression" or "therapy". Novels are for readers, and writing them means the crafty, patient, selfless construction of effects. I think of my novels as being something like fairground rides: my job is to strap the reader into their car at the start of chapter one, then trundle and whizz them through scenes and surprises, on a carefully planned route, and at a finely engineered pace.
Respect your characters, even the ­minor ones. In art, as in life, everyone is the hero of their own particular story; it is worth thinking about what your minor characters' stories are, even though they may intersect only slightly with your protagonist's. At the same time . . .
Be honest with yourself. If you are no good, accept it. If the work you are ­doing is no good, accept it.
Take no notice of anyone you don't respect.
“You will become way less concerned with what other people think of you when you realize how seldom they do.”
Our daily lives are guided by inferences about what others think, believe, feel, and want. This is your sixth sense at work.
One of the biggest barriers to understanding others is excessive egocentrism. You can’t see into the mind of others because you can’t get over yourself. You can’t overcome your own experiences, beliefs, attitudes, emotions, knowledge, and visual perspective to recognize that others may view the world differently. Copernicus may have removed the Earth from the center of the universe, but every person on this planet is still at the center of his or her own universe.
“People act like they’re always being watched. Even their house is a performance.” 
The point here is that few of us are quite the celebrity that our own experience suggests we might be; nor are we under as much careful scrutiny from others as we might expect. Early on in Casablanca, Peter Lorre learns this lesson the hard way when he looks to Humphrey Bogart for some recognition, saying, “You despise me, don’t you?” Bogart replies, “If I gave you any thought, I probably would.” I think we would all benefit from having our own Casablanca moment. 
Twitter does not allow others to understand your perspective. It only allows others to confirm how stupid they already think you are.
The lens of expertise works like a microscope, allowing you to notice subtle details that a novice might not catch but also sharpening your focus in a way that can allow you to miss the bigger picture and make it difficult to understand a novice’s perspective. Trying to correct this lens first requires becoming aware of its influence. The problem is that it’s hard to know when you are being affected by your own expertise and when you are not. 
The less willing or able others are to give you a piece of their minds, the more their minds become a blank slate onto which you project your own.
When others’ minds are unknown, the mind you imagine is based heavily on your own. 
Think stews not salads when it comes to company culture. Start by letting a few choice ingredients simmer together. Then taste. You’ll have a better palate for what it delivers and lacks than if you toss it all together from the start.
Demonstrate your software internally. Some of the best notes can come from people you least expect.
We therefore decided to create reels for our software designs. These were digital movies composed of simple hand-drawn imagery that were narrated and animated to show how users would interact with the new system.
We dont have to get the thing in order to feel ok.
We don't have to push the thing away in order to feel ok.
A chess game often hinges on a single move. 
"Chess is the perfect subject to teach in schools," he says with a traceable Staten Island accent. "It is the special that relates most to academics. Chess teaches kids to think critically and objectively, to check their answers and to look for alternative solutions. Those skills are useful in every subject."
If you’re trying to predict the future of any tech, don’t just ask “what will the tech be like in 10 years?”, but “what will the world be like if everybody has access to the tech that’s around today?”. That’s usually the more profitable question.
The future impact of mediocre smartphones throughout the world will be much, much more profound that whatever new tweak Apple and Google have up their sleeves.
I try to live my life so that I don’t have regrets. To say that I made a mistake and learned something from it. To say I made the best decision I could have at the time given my knowledge and feelings.
Luckily there’s an easy way to stop procrastinating: Chop the large task into many small pieces and tackle them one by one. 
Everyone you meet in life has something to teach you. Listen to what they talk about and ask questions. Most people have one or two things they are passionate about, whether it’s sports, food, gambling, music, drugs, money, books, guns, cars, history, fitness, video games, motorcycles, sex, or writing. The list of possible knowledge is endless. Even the lowest, most worthless piece-of-shit human being you meet can teach you how not to act. 
Treating someone with respect is the best way to start a relationship with them. Either that person will prove you right and will keep your respect or they will turn out to be a piece of shit and will lose it. Yet it’s better to respect someone who doesn’t deserve it than it is to disrespect someone who deserves your respect. 
There are two types of people in this world: those who do what they say they’re going to do and those who don’t.
Value is making someone else's life easier.
2 billion people coming online in the next few years. The only experience they will have is the mobile web.
For tech pros attempting to launch their own products with the help of Kickstarter (or merely through venture funding), simple and cheap might be the only choice available; more than one newborn project has imploded because its creators decided to add layer after layer of unnecessary complexity. Don’t be afraid to keep things minimalist; you can still succeed.
A good plan violently executed now is better than a perfect plan next week.
You know you’re going fast enough if there’s a low-level discomfort, people feeling stretched. But if you’re going too fast, you’ll see it on their faces, and that’s important to spot too.
Today is better than tomorrow, right now is better than six hours from now.
Too many people believe that speed is the enemy of quality. To an extent they’re right—you can’t force innovation and sometimes genius needs time and freedom to bloom. But in my experience, that’s the rare case. There’s not always a stark tradeoff between something done fast and done well. Don’t let you or your organization use that as a false shield or excuse to lose momentum. The moment you do, you lose your competitive advantage.
"It's one thing if you come forward and say I'm not satisfied or I'm not happy or I'm finding it hard to remain faithful - as long as you're open," she says. "It's just completely unfair to waste years of a person's life with duplicity."
“Intelligence is where the rush and opportunities are today,” said IBM’s O’Connor. “Taking a bucket of bits and figuring out what to do with it. That’s where the industry demand is.”
I think it’s a pretty simple effect. People with similar interests like to cluster, but people who also really care about improving will cluster further. They might be able to invent one or two sources of power on their own, but then they share it with the people around them -- who also have a secret or two. The effect compounds, with the benefits from sharing ideas dwarfing the loss of exclusivity. Just as IBM found their above-average testers became dozens of times better when grouped together, what you get are communities that collectively have and share the best ways of doing things. So the way to get good at something is to simply find the right community and join it.
It's impossible for our brain to think too many things at once to think well. Shifting our mental attention between tasks costs time and comprehension, especially when we switch between more complicated and unfamiliar tasks.
Software is about People.
As much as we might like it otherwise, boredom is an inevitable element of modern life. One might even argue that some boredom is healthy. When the external world fails to engage our attention, we can turn inward and focus on inner, mental landscapes. Boredom, it has sometimes been argued, leads us toward creativity as we use our native wit and intelligence to hack dull environments. But streetscapes and buildings that ignore our need for sensory variety cut against the grain of ancient evolutionary impulses for novelty and will likely not lead to comfort, happiness or optimal functionality for future human populations.
Charles Bukowski, who Jones singles out as “a voice from hell with the talent of an angel.”
This gives rise to a kind of nervous contrarianism: we deny authors who would clearly suit us, and seek out those who will almost certainly disappoint us, all in the name of eclecticism. And soon enough, it seems that what passes as taste is an arbitrary extension of our insecurities and neuroses, and that an insane hubris undergirds every value judgment, and that the best thing to do would be to start over, bringing no preconceptions at all into our lives as readers. This is a position I find myself in about once a day. On that point, at least, I can agree entirely with Jones: I am always crushed by how many books I have not read.
Everything about tech is fast. Of the moment. Almost built not to last.
We live in an engineering world. The robots haven’t won, but it’s getting close. But the problem here is that engineers are not storytellers. This isn’t a dis, but an important reminder that you have to start with, and always go back to, the brand. The origin story. There’s no Batman without Bruce Wayne. 
“Following your dreams is dangerous,” a 31-year-old woman who runs in social entrepreneurship circles in New York, and asked not to be named, told Quartz. “This whole bulk of the population is being seduced into thinking that they can just go out and pursue their dream anytime, but it’s not true.”
Our industry seems to be changing faster over time. It's hard to keep up; the best way to keep up seems to be to read a lot. Serious programmers should read as much as they can. I read as much as I can, but I still wish I had more time for it. 
If you read a lot, you'll start to spot trends and undercurrents. You might see people talking more often about some theme or technology that you think is about to take off, or you'll just sense vaguely that some sort of tipping point is occurring in the industry. Or in your company, for that matter. 
I seem to have many of my best insights as I'm writing about stuff I already know.
Most of the great technology products that we use day to day don’t create brand new behaviors or experiences, they just enhance them. They make them simpler.
We wrote SMSes before Twitter and postcards before that.
We checked out our classmates on a real paper facebook before Facebook.
We read newspapers and played 99 Bottles of Beer on the Wall to entertain ourselves on trains before Clash of Clans.
The goal of technology is to enhance, not to simply exist and be used.
Just because we’ve tricked someone into click buy now doesn’t mean our product is awesome. There have always been con artists and digital con artists are no better.
We have to build, not to build, but to build for something. To build for someone.
Otherwise we’re not creating value. We’re just stealing attention.
Kids are anxious, afraid and risk-averse because parents are more focused on keeping their children safe, content and happy in the moment than on parenting for competence.
Watch what happens when you go to a teacher and say, "I'd like to give my child some increased autonomy this year, so I won't be meddling in his homework and I'd like for you to hold him accountable for the consequences of his mistakes." You will have an admirer for life.
Difficult relationships often push you to change your behavior for the better. In feeling helpless, you learn to take care of yourself. In feeling used, you recognize your worth. In being abused, you develop compassion. In feeling like you’re stuck, you realize there is always a choice. In accepting what was done to you, you realize that nobody has control at the end of the day, but in surrendering the need for something we’ll never have, we can find peace, which is what we were actually seeking in the first place. 
The people who have been through a lot are often the ones who are wiser and kinder and happier overall. This is because they’ve been “through” it, not “past” it or “over” it. They’ve completely acknowledged their feelings and they’ve learned and they’ve grown. They develop compassion and self-awareness. They are more conscious of who they let into their lives. They take a more active role in creating their lives, in being grateful for what they have and in finding reason for what they don’t.
Truly coming to peace with anything is being able to say: “thank you for that experience.” To fully move on from anything, you must be able to recognize what purpose it served, and how it made you better. Until that moment, you’ll only be ruminating in how it made things worse, which means you’re not to the other side yet. To fully accept your life – the highs, lows, good, bad – is to be grateful for all of it, and to know that the “good” teaches you well, but the “bad” teaches you better. 
With meditation you can confront the repressed emotions lurking just below the surface in your subconscious. These emotions, desires, anxieties manifest in your daily life and go on creating patterns of thought and action which dictate your destiny. Through meditation you dive into yourself. Meditation can accomplish in a year what psychotherapy might take ten years to uncover. And unlike therapy, which goes on creating more neuroses, like a hydra monster, with meditation you bypass the mind completely. You just drop the whole rotten thing. In its place something very beautiful is uncovered.
Meditation is a clearing away of the accumulated debris and rubbish you go on collecting in daily life. It is like power washing, a spring-cleaning of the mind. It is the only method for self-transformation – it can cure depression, anxiety, insecurities. All of these are burned away in the silence of meditation.
To meditate takes a tremendous amount of courage. Most people go on avoiding in every way possible the process of self-introspection. They are afraid of what they will find below the surface. They are afraid of the quiet. So they drink, they go out to party, anything to distract themselves.
But if you go on, you will find an oasis of calm inside yourself; something unalterable, solid bedrock on which you can stand and be totally secure in your being. Heaven is not something far off, high in the clouds with an eternal harpsichord soundtrack. It is within you. Just have to be silent enough to observe it.
There is a saying that I’ll try to paraphrase but the basic idea is that what you do for work shouldn’t be something you love. You shouldn’t convert your passion into work because work will suck the fun out of it. You keep your hobbies on the side and you do the work you’d enjoy doing the most long-term.
That’s what programming is to me. It’s something I’m good at, enjoy doing, and it allows me to do lots of cool stuff on the side.
Find work that you can do well and for a long time. If it allows you to do what you love, even better. That’s my motto.
The best way to avoid contempt is to look for your fear.
No art replaces another art. It just adds onto the previous art.
Your actions define you, not your thoughts.
You can sit indoors all day conceptualizing a better world, but until you get out there and start implementing change, you’re not actually making a difference. Good intention is a wonderful thing but unless it’s coupled with action, it counts for nothing. At the end of the day, your character is determined by what you do, not by what you think about. 
Ultimately, success in technology – as in art – is derived from the expression of big ideas, not simply a mastering of its circuitry.
Kraftwerk’s biggest ideas, of course, stem from the all-pervasiveness of digital culture in everyday life, best expressed in 1981’s Computer World. While it may sound quaint in the iPhone era, the song suggested that computing itself would change how man viewed “business, numbers, money, people,” and reshape “crime, travel, communication, entertainment.” Kraftwerk couldn’t have been more right on these matters.
The only constant is that today’s avant-garde technology will be tomorrow’s also-ran. Like Kraftwerk’s lunar sounds, inventive products and companies will come and go – and their makers diminish – but the fundamental urge to communicate, play and connect will never die. The success or failure of their creators will depend on their ability to adapt and continue to capitalize on these larger human impulses. The surprising revelation from Kraftwerk’s continued relevance is that technology is but a small piece of the equation.
El Niño is a cyclical weather pattern that takes place in the tropical region of the Pacific Ocean and consists of higher-than-normal water temperatures in the central and eastern basins.
Refuse to believe that any society can really ever can be meritocratic. Luck or accident are a critical determination of where people end up in the hierarchy. Treat no one — not least yourself — as though they entirely deserve to be where they are. 
Make up your own definition of success, instead of uncritically leaning on society’s. There are so many ways to succeed, and many of them have nothing to do with status as it’s currently defined within the value system of capitalism. Sure, money can be one of them, but it’s up to you whether it’s the ONLY one. 
Refuse to let your outer achievements define your sense of self entirely. Of course, that doesn’t mean to not try to be rich and have nice things. It just means that there are so many amazing accomplishments that don’t stand a chance of being captured by that maddening and blunt question, “So, what do you do?”
The first step in finding meaningful work is to write down everything that you enjoy doing. Building a treehouse, baking, watching TV, folding clothes. Everything. The more offbeat, the better. Don’t even think about money. Financial panic ruins the process.
After you’ve had a good think, then you must act. Your thoughts and action need to collide in the real world. Take real steps to gather information on your list. For example, by shadowing, interning or volunteering. They don’t need to be huge steps, you just need to do something. We mustn’t think we always need to resign on Monday. 
Next time you meet someone, and they ask “What do you do?” the appropriate answer is to tell them what you enjoy doing. 
Check for books at the library.
John Horton Conway claims to have never worked a day in his life. Instead, he purports to have frittered away reams and reams of time playing.
Welcome! It’s a poor place but mine own!
A cellular automaton is a little machine with groups of cells that evolve from iteration to iteration in discrete rather than continuous time — in seconds, say, each tick of the clock advances the next iteration, and over time, behaving a bit like a transformer or a shape-shifter, the cells evolve into something, anything, everything else. Life is played on a grid, like tic-tac-toe, where its proliferating cells resemble skittering microorganisms viewed under a microscope.
Simplicity facilitates change.
“On the overall challenge of programming... I know very well how intimidatingly difficult it is when you're just getting started.  It turns out though that most of the difficulty is not in how to consider the syntax of the code - that can be discovered with a quick Google Search - but in terms of how to actually solve a problem with functions that are successfully integrated in their logic.  Almost always the process of "problem solving" is what takes 90% of the programming time, and the actual way it is carried out is in overcoming the "stuck feeling" about a continuous stream of "bugs".  Basically 90% of the time any programmer is dealing with any problem, they feel stuck, and they have to figure out why and solve the problem.  The only thing I could compare this to is in trying to develop a mathematical proof, except these types of "proofs" have to be tested and verified, which adds extra time and difficulty.  For example, when you were last in New York and I wanted to get divvyy.com to display its content both on desktop and mobile, I actually had to spend about 12 hours on this, working right up until midnight, because everything I tried kept on being "not the right solution"... But I marched on, knowing that there must be some solution that would make everything come together in a perfect way.  This type of programming (programming graphical user interfaces) is very different from programming something like a statistical model, but in both cases you know as a programmer that there are going to be weird problems that simply need to be figured out.  As soon as you accept this mentality - that your job is primarily to "do whatever it takes" to solve problems - then life gets a lot easier because the difficult times are expected as part of the job.  Basically, whenever you're coding, you should expect to need to spend much more time than you might have initially assumed, because problems are usually more complex than you initially assumed.  Accordingly, you come to reconsider having to "waste a lot of time" as really the only way to get past all of your current problem solving limitations.  Definitely, if in the future you have similar problems, you will not have to spend as much time on programming solutions, but it turns out that even for someone like me with a fair amount of experience, I usually am seeing over 50% of my programming needs within a single task as complex and difficult and requiring me to figure a lot of shit out "the hard way".  The best thing I can advise to solve this in general is to be more voracious with Google Searrch for every specific poblem, e.g. "how to do a for loop in javascript" etc. and then just read whatever documentation you find, and more often than not look for actual code examples that usually almost do what you're trying to do.  That way you don't reinvent any wheels.
I think much of the eternal developer lament about code quality has to do with the strange and highly unusual job of the software developer. If you're a musician, all day long you practice and work on the actual output of your job, the music. You can work to shape every note and phrase to your liking, and, with luck, those practiced nuances will come off the same way during a performance or recording. If you are a carpenter, you spend your day working on the actual chair or cabinet that is the final output of your work. As a physician, your work is performed directly on the main object of your profession, the patient.
As a developer, almost nothing you work on ever leaves your development environment or the close confines of your development team: What you ship is the binary, not the source. Unless your product is, or includes, the source code, almost no one outside your team ever sees - or cares about - the source code you spend the precious hours of each day writing.
It follows that few people outside your close team members ever care about the quality of that source code. And most compilers don't care about source code quality, either - how you name your variables, how long and clean your methods are, the clarity of your object model, or even the algorithms you use, are of little interest to the compiler that can happily create an equivalent binary from ugly or pretty code.
Of course, we as developers must care about code quality, since we spend most of our waking hours working on code. And, as every good craftsman, we strive for quality. A physician would want to practice high quality medicine, or any carpenter worth his salt would want to produce a quality staircase or chest. As developers, we also like to produce and maintain a high quality code base.
The trouble is, a quality code base often doesn't matter in terms of our final output, because the compiler is there to mediate - it obliterates ugliness as much as it wipes away beauty. And users care only about that final, binary output. For instance, as you read these words, you care little about the quality of the code that the Java compiler translated to the binary version of this JSP page.
When we spend time to make our code high quality, we justify that effort by saying that the work would provide some business benefit down the road. The trouble is, code quality, by itself, seldom results in any measurable business return on investment, as many commentators on Artima have observed. The database company my friend works for, for instance, may have "ugly" or hard-to-read code, but that code works just as well. Instead, that company is better off focusing on overall product quality than on code quality.
And total product quality, as Edwards Deming noted, is not the result of merely improving the quality of a single activity, but is rather the outcome of a set of processes focusing on the quality of the total output. In this case, that total output is the binary we ship. Developer testing, agile development methods, quality assurance, continuous integration - these are all processes that facilitate a high quality of total output. Code quality is but a small part of that effort. An organization can get a better return on investment from focusing on the processes that lead to a quality product, than by placing a great deal of emphasis on code quality.
Managers, intuitively or by learning, seem to understand that - to the chagrin of developers, who must work on the level of the code day after day. That's sad news, because it means that we, developers, are doomed to eternal complaint and frustration about code quality. 
So strong is our proclivity for making sense of sound that mere listening is enough to build a deeply internalised mastery of the basic materials of whatever music surrounds us.
It has often been observed that there is a special connection between music and memory. This is what allows a song such as Tom Lehrer’s The Elements (1959) to teach children the periodic table better than many chemistry courses. You don’t need to have any special training to benefit from the memory boost conferred by setting a text to music – it just works, because it’s taking advantage of your own hidden musical abilities and inclinations. Music can also absorb elements of autobiographical memory – that’s why you burst into tears in the grocery store when you hear the song that was playing when you broke up with your boyfriend. Music soaks up all kinds of memories, without us being aware of what’s happening.
When we acknowledge how, just by living and listening, we have all acquired deep musical knowledge, we must also recognise that music is not the special purview of professionals. Rather, music professionals owe their existence to the fact that we, too, are musical. Without that profound shared understanding, music would have no power to move us.
I understand our community’s tendency toward the blase “Nothing you can do is good enough” response.  It’s not just social awkwardness.  To be a successful developer, you have to teach yourself to be relentless with your own code.  No matter how great it is, the perfectionist in us always sees something more that could  be done.  Sometimes, we forget to turn that ruthless perfectionist off when we leave work in the evenings.
This unplanned experience taught me that if you care about people they will care back, and with just a little bit of encouragement most people will eagerly learn what you need them to know.
How my life was changed when I began caring about the people I did not hire.
How to write if you cannot concentrate.
Mr. Rieur in front of the slides he uses when teachingJack Rieur was the most wonderful teacher I ever had and perhaps the best teacher anywhere on the planet and for all time. I first met him in 1963 when he was my 6th grade teacher and we have kept in touch ever since.
Sure, he covered the state mandated syllabus, but what he really taught was that the world was something we go out and live in and not read about in the classroom. And learning was fun; the most fun you can ever have. And if you pay attention you can learn from life itself and the point wasn’t that there was a test at the end of the semester but later in life you had to teach others because the human race is not a race to the finish but a relay race where near the finish line we must pass the baton.
For example, he taught geography not from the book but from the slides he took personally when he visited all the places in the book. Here is a picture I took of him back when he was a spry 89-year-old in front of the 79,662 slides he used in practicing his craft and that have since been digitized and stored by the Archives at the Consortium Library. I have been to more than 40 countries so far and have set up housekeeping in a few (and I’m no where near done). Had I not had him I might have run the risk of having gone to Canada once and seen a few other countries for a few hours each on a cruise.
He died this last August but his spirit lives on in me. For example he came to my rescue just now when I was stuck writing one thing and I got unstuck by writing something else.
Mr. Rieur’s other name was Jack but he insisted his sixth grader’s call him Mr. Rieur. It was not a matter of respect for age but of class. You only got to call him Jack if you became a teacher too. Well I have approached raising my children and managing my businesses and all my writing as a teacher, and so I think I have earned the right to call him Jack posthumously. However if you have done none of those things then please call him Mr. Rieur out of respect.
How to write if you cannot concentrate.
People tell me that they cannot concentrate long enough to write anything coherent that isn’t trite or a cut-and-paste job of things off the web, which doesn’t count anyway.
I say, “So?”
“Well,” they say, “I want to know how I can write like you because it appears you have a hard time concentrating.”
I say, “Oh, I concentrate when I write. I’m just not concentrating on you right now.”
They say, “What? That doesn’t make sense.”
I say, “Never mind. I’m probably answering something somebody asked me once that I’m only getting around to answering now. What’s up?”
They say they will make it simple, “How do I write like you?”
I start telling them that the first thing I remember writing really well was a lab report for my 6th grade teacher who really knew how to teach. First we made four kinds of fire extinguishers: Water (soda/acid), Dry chemical (baking powder), Foam (I think it was shaving cream), and CO2 (some kind of effervescent tablet). Then we started fires in a trash can behind the school and we put them out. Then we wrote about it.
They interrupt and ask what that has to do with anything.
I explain that you want to write what you know and care about from first-hand emotional experience that is either sad or fun. A house burning down is sad, so you want a fire extinguisher handy so it would be good to know how to make one in a pinch. And starting fires behind school is fun for a 6th grader and, come to think of it, I’d enjoy doing it even more today. Do all that and writing about it is so easy a sixth grader can do it.
And if you do something worth writing about and then you write about it then it becomes etched in your memory just like this story has. Which reminds me that my teacher died just this last August 29th exactly one month before his  97th birthday. It makes me sad I was out of the country and couldn’t be there to see him one last time but every other thought I have ever had about him makes me happy. His name was Mr. Reiur.
“Who wants a job?” I say, “That sounds like work. You want an interesting life and if you get yourself one, like I suggest, then that is what you will have. But because there is no point to having an interesting life if you cannot remember it, you’ve got to write it down.”
It should create the best mood possible for the action to take place in.
“Breaking up with someone doesn’t mean you ‘wasted’ a relationship. It’s a learning experience, and you’re a better person after it.”
“Think first, act later. Don’t be impulsive.”
“I wish someone had told me to stop worrying about how I might come off to others and instead, live my life. Everyone feels insecure just like you.”
“Don’t take yourself too seriously. Enjoy life. You only get to live it once.”
Most pop music is so fast and upbeat that it can literally speed up your heart rate. The acceleration makes you move just a little bit quicker which tests our patience. There’s an acoustic versions for any genre or taste preference, so try substituting.
Acknowledge the good in your day by writing it down.
Exercise to get rid of your aggression.
In wine, there is patience.
You’re the character we root for in movies, television, etc
You’re basically an entire genre of pop culture. And 9/10 times, everyone is on your side. Not sure Michael Cera would even have a career if this wasn’t the case.
Wallace did not subscribe to Hemingway’s “iceberg theory” of fiction, wherein the unsaid was the greater part of artistry
Openly share your ideas and feelings, and most important respect each other. Always following the Saul Bellow edict of being a “first-class noticer.”
The magic of the smartphone is not about the gadget, it’s the services and the constant connection that make the smartphone a life tool, not just a tech tool. Those are the features that answer the question of why, and not just what. 
To be a foreigner is to be perpetually detached, but it is also to be continually surprised.
"There's something about watching someone program that you can't get from a book or a lecture."
The word "automat" comes from the Greek automatos, meaning "self-acting." But Automats weren’t truly automatic. They were heavily staffed. As a customer removed a compartment’s contents, a behind-the-machine human quickly slipped another sandwich, salad, piece of pie or coffee cake into the vacated chamber.
We must live, We must create in the storm. We must stop commenting on our time in order to give it form. - Albert Camus
“Life really begins when you have discovered that you can do anything you want.”
If you don’t get out now, you may end up like the frog that is placed in a pot of fresh water on the stove. As the temperature is gradually increased, the frog feels restless and uncomfortable, but not uncomfortable enough to jump out. Without being aware that a chance is taking place, he is gradually lulled into unconsciousness.
Your life is too short and too valuable to fritter away in work.
Actually, there is only one way in this world to achieve true happiness, and that is to express yourself with all your skill and enthusiasm in a career that appeals to you more than any other. In such a career, you feel a sense of purpose, a sense of achievement. You feel you are making a contribution. It is not work.
The greatest satisfaction you can obtain from life is your pleasure in producing, in your own individual way, something of value to your fellowmen. That is creative living!
Often, success or failure turns on this question of human relations. … Any time you do not enjoy the human relations involved in any job, sooner or later that job’s bound to be work, not fun.
Without Time nothing is possible. Everything requires Time. Time is the only permanent and absolute ruler in the universe. But she is a scrupulously fair ruler. She treats every living person exactly alike every day. No matter how much of the world’s goods you have managed to accumulate, you cannot successfully plead for a single moment more than the pauper receives without ever asking for it. Time is the one great leveler. Everyone has the same amount to spend every day. The next time you feel that you ‘haven’t the time’ to do what you really want to do, it may be worth-while for you to remember that you have as much time as anyone else — twenty-four hours a day. How you spend that twenty-four hours is really up to you.
You do something all day long, don’t you? Everyone does. If you get up at seven o’clock and go to bed at eleven, you have put in sixteen good hours, and it is certain that you have been doing something all that time. The only difference is that you do a great many things and I do one. If you took the time in question and applied it in one direction, you would succeed. Success is sure to follows such application. The trouble lies in the fact that people do not have one thing to stick to, letting all else go.
You’ve got to do something unusual to get favorable attention. And one of the simplest ways for anyone to gain recognition and advancement in any job is to develop a reputation for being a person who has ‘good ideas.’
Anyone who gets enough practice solving the little problems, will, sooner, or later, be able to solve the big ones. Big ideas are usually a lot of little ideas rolled into one.
Not surprisingly, most people who have had a huge influence on the world have been flawed, some deeply so. Most people are flawed in one way or another.
Jonathan Ive, Apple’s famed designer and longtime friend of Jobs, recounted a telling story. He remembered a time when Jobs had been tough — too tough, in Mr. Ive’s estimation — on his team. Mr. Ive pulled him aside and told him to be bit nicer. “Well, why?” Jobs replied. “Because I care about the team,” Mr. Ive responded. “And he said this brutally, brilliantly insightful thing, which was, ‘No, Jony, you’re just really vain,’ ” Mr. Ive recalled. “He said, ‘You just want people to like you, and I’m surprised at you because I thought you really held the work up as the most important, not how you believed you were perceived by other people.’ ”
In the time that's allotted to us to in life, we have to make many choices. Opting to pursue an unmarketable career solely because one loves it is an available option. But that decision has consequences. In a university system like ours, where supply and demand are distorted, many promising young people make rash decisions with an inadequate understanding of their long-term implications. Even for people like me, who succeed despite the odds, it's possible to look back and realize we've worked toward a disappointment, ending up as "winners" of a mess that damages its participants more every day.
People say, "Oh well, you know, I don’t care about fashion." They go to the Gap, they go to Old Navy, and they all dress alike, they wear these uniforms. The thing that I really harp on is that, that in and of itself is a choice, it’s a personal choice, because there are many people who don’t do that. In buying those uniforms, you’re saying something about yourself, and about how you feel about clothing and culture. There is no such thing as an unaffected fashion choice. Anti-fashion is fashion, because it’s a reaction to the current visual culture, a negation of it.
You must attend to every movement and every breath. As soon as I become careless or let my mind wander, my senses lead me astray. They play tricks on me like ill-mannered children looking for attention. Whenever I am impatient, for example, I want everything to happen more quickly. My movements become hasty. I spill the tea or the bowl of soup. I don’t hear properly what others say because I am already elsewhere in my thoughts.
She was mystified by people who were always hurrying things along. A time of waiting offered moments, minutes, sometimes even hours of peace, of rest, during which, as a rule, she was alone with herself. And she needed these breaks to prepare herself for anything new, for any kind of change.
Because we only see what we already know. We project our own capacities – for good as well as evil – onto the other person. Then we acknowledge as love primarily those things that correspond to our own image thereof. We wish to be loved as we ourselves would love. Any other way makes us uncomfortable. We respond with doubt and suspicion. We misinterpret the signs. We do not understand the language.
I didn’t find happiness again until I found a new challenge and goal to set my sights on.
Hurl the spear forward, reach for it, pick it up, hurl it again.
That’s the key to life. The joy doesn’t come in picking up the spear or even tossing it, but in chasing it, again and again. You’ve heard it said many times, I’m sure, but life is a journey, enjoy the ride. It’s true. We have to focus on the journey itself. We have to realize that what we are doing now is the fun part.
90% of the enjoyment you get out of life will come from the hard work and only 10% from the enjoyment of the rewards it brings.
Realize that, right now, in the present where you sit, your life is happening. You don’t have to wait for it to begin, and you can’t put it on hold.
If children were given ample opportunities to play outdoors every day with peers, there would be no need for specialized exercises or meditation techniques for the youngest of our society. They would simply develop these skills through play. That’s it. Something that doesn’t need to cost a lot of money or require much thought. Children just need the time, the space, and the permission to be kids.
